Agentic Program Verification
HAOXIN TU, National University of Singapore, Singapore
HUAN ZHAO, National University of Singapore, Singapore
YAHUI SONG, National University of Singapore, Singapore
MEHTAB ZAFAR, National University of Singapore, Singapore
RUIJIE MENG, National University of Singapore, Singapore
ABHIK ROYCHOUDHURY, National University of Singapore, Singapore
Automatically generated code is gaining traction recently, owing to the prevalence of Large Language Models
(LLMs). Further, the AlphaProof initiative has demonstrated the possibility of using AI for general mathematical
reasoning. Reasoning about computer programs (software) can be accomplished via general mathematical
reasoning; however, it tends to be more structured and richer in contexts. This forms an attractive proposition,
since then AI agents can be used to reason about voluminous code that gets generated by AI.
In this work, we present a first LLM agent, AutoRocq, for conducting program verification. Unlike past
works, which rely on extensive training of LLMs on proof examples, our agent learns on-the-fly and improves
the proof via an iterative refinement loop. The iterative improvement of the proof is achieved by the proof
agent communicating with the Rocq (formerly Coq) theorem prover to get additional context and feedback.
The final result of the iteration is a proof derivation checked by the Rocq theorem prover. In this way, our
proof construction involves autonomous collaboration between the proof agent and the theorem prover. This
autonomy facilitates the search for proofs and decision-making in deciding on the structure of the proof tree.
Experimental evaluation on SV-COMP benchmarks and on Linux kernel modules shows promising efficacy
in achieving automated program verification. As automation in code generation becomes more widespread,
we posit that our proof agent can be potentially integrated with AI coding agents to achieve a generate and
validate loop, thus moving closer to the vision of trusted automatic programming.
ACM Reference Format:
Haoxin Tu, Huan Zhao, Yahui Song, Mehtab Zafar, Ruijie Meng, and Abhik Roychoudhury. 2018. Agentic
Program Verification. In Proceedings of Under Review (XX). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 21 pages. https://doi.
org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX
1
Introduction
The widespread adoption of AI-generated code has transformed the landscape of software devel-
opment. Today, more than 25% of the new code at Google is generated by AI. Yet the increasing
amounts of code often carry subtle semantic errors or vulnerabilities [40] that may elude human
review and testing, necessitating automated reasoning on program behaviors to engender trust.
One promising approach to attain strong, machine-checkable evidence about program properties is
Authors’ Contact Information: Haoxin Tu, National University of Singapore, Singapore, haoxin.tu@nus.edu.sg; Huan Zhao,
National University of Singapore, Singapore, zhaohuan@comp.nus.edu.sg; Yahui Song, National University of Singapore,
Singapore, yahuisong123@gmail.com; Mehtab Zafar, National University of Singapore, Singapore, mehtab@nus.edu.sg;
Ruijie Meng, National University of Singapore, Singapore, mengrj.cs@gmail.com; Abhik Roychoudhury, National University
of Singapore, Singapore, abhik@nus.edu.sg.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee
provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the
full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored.
Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires
prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
XX, Woodstock, NY
© 2018 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-XXXX-X/2018/06
https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.
arXiv:2511.17330v1  [cs.SE]  21 Nov 2025


2
H. Tu, H. Zhao, Y. Song, M. Zafar, R. Meng, and A. Roychoudhury
formal verification, which has been pivotal in certifying high-assurance systems for decades, such
as microkernels [25], compilers [29], and databases [36].
Formal verification techniques commonly (1) reduce programs and specifications to logical
formulas as proof obligations, and (2) discharge those obligations to automatic or interactive theorem
provers (ITPs). Common ITPs, such as Isabelle/HOL and Rocq/Coq, automatically reduce the proof
goals by applying user-supplied proof steps called tactics. Unfortunately, formal verification sees
limited adoption in production systems, as it is an extremely time- and skill-intensive undertaking.
Specifically, (1) capturing program behaviors formally requires significant efforts in manually
annotating specifications and crafting loop invariants, and (2) generating a mathematically rigorous
proof to validate verification conditions demands a high degree of expertise. For instance, the
verification of the seL4 microkernel [25] required 22 person-years of effort, while the proofs for the
CompCert compiler took 6 person-years and 100,000 lines of Rocq code—eight times longer than
the implementation itself [29]. Most of the specifications and proofs are meticulously crafted by the
developers. Recently, advances in Large Language Model (LLM) agents have been transformative
across various disciplines. In particular, LLMs have demonstrated remarkable capabilities in both
code understanding [5] and general mathematical reasoning [17]—two foundational capabilities
required by program verification. In this work, we thus ask the following question: Can LLM agents
be leveraged for automatic and end-to-end verification of real-world programs?
State-of-the-art and what is needed. Since there have been approaches to discuss proof automation
by leveraging LLMs [33, 48] and other machine-learning-based techniques [41, 43, 51]—let us try
to understand the need for a new approach. First of all, it is reasonable to use machine learning
models to learn and predict individual proof steps or tactics in a proof. This has been accomplished
in several works, including Proverbot9001 [41]. It is also possible for LLMs to generate whole
proofs, albeit potentially incorrect ones, and then have a repair step to correct them, if possible—an
approach studied in PALM [33]. Rango [48] goes one step further. Given a sequence of proof steps,
it uses an ITP for yes/no validation of the proof steps, thereby allowing the trial of different tactics.
An agentic approach. These approaches all use LLMs, but are not agentic. We aim to develop an
approach where an LLM agent can understand the proof structure and autonomously seek help
from a theorem prover while constructing the proof. Thus, apart from using a theorem prover
for validation of proof steps, the agent can actively collaborate with a theorem prover to prove
a program property. As such, we develop a proof automation agent AutoRocq which acts as an
interpreter of a proof derivation, and collaborates with a theorem prover to extend/improve it.
Specifically, AutoRocq autonomously interacts with the theorem prover ahead of tactic prediction
to retrieve relevant lemmas in the context, and generates tactics smartly guided by tree-shaped
proof representations. It also incorporates feedback from the interactive theorem prover and proof
histories to refine tactic generation.
Evaluation. We thoroughly evaluate our approach on existing mathematical lemmas [51], as well
as lemmas systematically extracted from SV-COMP programs [7]. The SV-COMP programs’ lemmas
capture intricate code logic and properties, which are more representative of program verification.
Evaluation shows that AutoRocq significantly outperforms state-of-the-art approaches. Specifically,
AutoRocq is capable of proving 51.1% mathematical lemmas and 30.9% program lemmas, exceeding
baseline approaches by 20.8% to 343.0% on mathematical lemmas, and by 42.4% to 204.6% on program
lemmas. Among the successes, 142 lemmas (98 mathematical lemmas and 44 program lemmas)
are uniquely proved by AutoRocq, due to its agentic design and access to proof contexts. We
also conduct a case study to verify the code in Linux kernel modules (i.e., memory management
utilities), where AutoRocq automatically verifies 12 lemmas for the function correctness property,
compared to only 2–10 lemmas verified by baseline approaches.
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.


Agentic Program Verification
3
Contributions. In summary, the contributions of this paper are as follows.
• We build the first proof automation agent, AutoRocq, which is highly effective in automatic
proof generation. It acts as an interpreter of proof representations and actively collaborates with
the Rocq prover to construct proofs.
• We showcase the feasibility of automatic and end-to-end verification with LLM agents. AutoRocq
is evaluated on the widely used SV-COMP programs in software verification, as well as Linux
kernel modules.
• We conduct an empirical study to demonstrate proof context- and structure-awareness can help
LLM agents reason about software formally.
2
Background
2.1
Formal Program Verification
Formal program verification uses mathematically rigorous methods to prove that a program satisfies
its specifications. Unlike traditional testing, which can only expose errors for specific inputs or
executions, formal verification provides logical guarantees that a program behaves correctly for all
possible executions within a given semantic model. Within this landscape, a prominent paradigm
is deductive verification. In this approach, the program code is annotated with formal specifications,
such as preconditions, postconditions, and loop invariants. These annotations form formal contracts
that describe the program’s intended behavior at the module and function boundaries. The annotated
code is then compiled into a finite set of logical proof obligations under an explicit semantic model.
The discharge of all proof obligations implies that the program satisfies its specifications.
To facilitate deductive verification, a variety of tools have been developed, including Dafny [28,
37], Verus [27], Viper [38], and Frama-C [24]. These tools support annotating code, generating
proof obligations, and attempting to discharge them. Automated solvers [6, 14] can be used to
handle simple proof obligations (e.g., quantifier-free linear arithmetic [21]). More complex proof
obligations—such as those involving non-linear reasoning, quantifier handling, or sophisticated
inductive proofs—require human guidance. In such cases, interactive theorem provers (ITPs) are used,
where auxiliary lemmas are introduced to capture intermediate properties, helping to structure and
simplify the proofs of these obligations.
Rocq (formerly Coq) proof assistant [11] is a widely-used interactive theorem prover for semi-
automated validation of residual proof obligations. In Rocq, proofs are constructed in a top-down
manner from a proof goal—typically the statement of a theorem or lemma. Users iteratively apply
proof tactics, which are simple or parameterized commands that decompose the goal into zero or
more subgoals and guide the construction of a proof term. This proof term is type-checked by
Rocq’s trusted kernel. A proof succeeds when the subgoal list becomes empty, and the output
proof term is the formal certificate of validity. This certificate can be reproduced by replaying the
exact sequence of tactics, referred to as the proof script. Conceptually, successful proof induces a
proof tree rooted at the original proof goal. Each node represents a subgoal produced during the
derivation, and each edge corresponds to a tactic application. The interactive workflow of Rocq
supports incremental, exploratory proof development with frequent inspection and backtracking.
2.2
Machine Learning for Proof Generation
Proof generation aims to automatically synthesize proof scripts that discharge the given proof
obligations, which closes the last mile of program verification. Fueled by recent advances in AI, a
growing body of work tackles this task with machine-learning methods. Early works [19, 41, 42, 51]
often cast this problem as a sequence generation task. They design smart representations of
syntactic constraints [51], proof states [19], and fine-grained proof contexts [42] to enable neural
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.


4
H. Tu, H. Zhao, Y. Song, M. Zafar, R. Meng, and A. Roychoudhury
networks to generate valid tactic sequences. However, applying a tactic successfully does not
always advance the proof, as it may yield equivalent or even harder subgoals. This mismatch limits
standalone prediction networks, which fixate on next-step tactic generation without a reliable
global progress signal. To address this, an orthogonal line of work [8, 43] augments these networks
with search strategies to guide tactic generation. For instance, QEDCartographer [43] extends
Proverbot9001 [41] with a tactic selection model, trained through reinforcement learning with a
fine-grained reward function.
On the other hand, Large Language Models (LLMs), with their remarkable capabilities in mathe-
matical reasoning and high-level understanding, have become a promising alternative. A recent
study [33] shows that LLMs can grasp the high-level structure of proofs, though they often stumble
on rudimentary errors such as invalid references. Building on this observation, PALM first prompts
the LLM to generate a complete proof script, and then applies deterministic repair mechanisms
supplemented by the external tool CoqHammer [13] to patch errors. More recently, Rango [48]
fine-tuned an LLM as a knowledge base for tactic generation. At every step of the proof, Rango
retrieves the most relevant proofs and lemmas for the current proof state based on the predefined
similarity function, and then prompts its knowledge base to generate the next tactic.
These existing works have made significant advances in automated proof generation. However,
most approaches rely on models that are trained or fine-tuned on large corpora of existing proofs to
guide tactic generation. A widely-used large-scale training dataset is CoqGym [51], which contains
71K human-written proofs that cover mathematics, computer hardware, and programming language.
Models trained or fine-tuned on this dataset are effective in automatically generating proof scripts
for mathematical theorems and libraries. Unfortunately, their effectiveness is reduced when applied
to proofs about computer programs, which are typically more complex in both structure and
semantics. Moreover, existing works adopt deterministic mechanisms to patch proof errors, retrieve
relevant contexts, and generate subsequent tactics, preventing them from making adaptive, demand-
driven decisions. For example, context retrieval is usually based solely on similarity functions,
which may not provide sufficient information for generating the next tactic. Such a non-agentic
context search strategy further limits the ability of these approaches.
3
Motivating Example
Although many automatic proving approaches have been proposed, to our knowledge, none of
them prove lemmas in an agentic fashion. To motivate our agentic approach, AutoRocq, we use a
concrete example shown in Figure 1. Figure 1(a) shows the proof obligation (wp_goal, lines 1-7)
extracted from verifying the function correctness property of a real-world program cggmp2005b in
SV-COMP [7], along with the complete proof (lines 9-23) generated by AutoRocq. The proof tree
representation that guides AutoRocq’s proving process is visualized in Figure 1(b). This example
proof goal requires proving that “i1 = 10%Z ” (line 7) holds for integer-typed (Z) variables i1 and i
under a complex set of hypotheses involving modular arithmetic, inequalities, and type constraints
(lines 2-6). The hypotheses capture program semantics including path conditions (e.g., “i <= 10%Z ”)
and non-overflow constraints (“(-2147483648%Z)%Z <= x ”), all discharged by Frama-C during
automated verification (see Section 5.1.2 for more details). This example represents a typical lemma
derived from real-world verification tasks. It captures intricate program logic and thus requires
sophisticated reasoning about nested quantifiers, integer arithmetic, and logical constraints to
handle. The proof tree in Figure 1(b) illustrates how AutoRocq systematically decomposes the
problem through strategic tactic application, including case analysis with destruct that creates
multiple proof branches, and maintains rich contextual information throughout the proving process.
Such complex lemmas pose significant challenges to existing approaches (e.g., [33, 41, 43, 48]),
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.


Agentic Program Verification
5
intros i i1 ...
assert (Habs: Z.abs i1 <= 10) by (apply Z.abs_le; lia).
replace x with (i1 * i1) in Hx_ge_100.
assert (Hcases:i1 = 10 \/ i1=-10 \/ (-9 <= i1 <= 9)) by lia.
assumption.
destruct Hcases as [H10 | [Hn10 | Hle9]].
exfalso; subst; lia.
assert (…) by (apply Z.square_le_mono_nonneg; lia).
exfalso; subst; lia.
subst x.
lia.
Theorem wp_goal :
forall (i:Numbers.BinNums.Z) (i1:Numbers.BinNums.Z),
let x := (i1 * i1)%Z in ((-9%Z)%Z <= i1)%Z -> 
((-9%Z)%Z <= i)%Z -> (i <= 9%Z)%Z -> (i1 <= 10%Z)%Z -> 
(i <= 10%Z)%Z ->((-2147483648%Z)%Z <= x)%Z -> 
(100%Z <= x)%Z -> (x <= 2147483647%Z)%Z -> is_sint32 i1 -> 
is_sint32 i -> (i1 = 10%Z).
Proof.
intros i i1 x Hlow1 Hlow2 Hi_up Hi1_up Hi2_up
Hx_low Hx_ge_100 Hx_up Hsint1 Hsint2.
assert (Habs: Z.abs i1 <= 10) by (apply Z.abs_le; lia).
replace x with (i1 * i1) in Hx_ge_100.
assert (Hcases:i1 = 10 \/ i1=-10 \/ (-9 <= i1 <= 9)) by lia.
destruct Hcases as [H10 | [Hn10 | Hle9]].
assumption.
exfalso; subst; lia.
assert (Habs_i1_sq : Z.abs i1 * Z.abs i1 <= 9 * 9) 
by (apply Z.square_le_mono_nonneg; lia).
exfalso; lia.
subst x. 
lia.
Qed.
Local context:
⊢Goal
For all i i1 : int, …
⊢i1 = 10
… Hi1: i1 <= 10
⊢i1 = 10
… Z.abs i1 <= 10
⊢i1 * i1 = i1 * i1
… i1 = 10 \/ …
⊢i1 = 10
… Z.abs i1 <= 10
⊢i1 = 10
… H10: i1 = 10
⊢i1 = 10
… H10: i1 = 10
⊢i1 = 10
… H10: i1 = 10
⊢i1 = 10
… i1 <= 9 * 9
⊢i1 = 10
… Z.abs i1 <= 10
⊢i1 = 10
… Z.abs i1 <= 10
⊢i1 * i1 = x
(b) Proof tree
(a) Proof obligation extracted from a program
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
Fig. 1. (a) Proof obligation wp_goal extracted from benchmark52_polynomial in SV-COMP [7] and its proof
generated by AutoRocq, with (b) the proof tree constructed during proving, where lemmas highlighted are
retrieved from the global context autonomously by AutoRocq.
and none of them can prove this lemma during our experiments. We highlight these challenges to
motivate AutoRocq’s agentic design in the following.
Verbose and crowded context. The local context of wp_goal carries rich semantic information—
six hypotheses are present in the statement simultaneously. These hypotheses include conjunctions,
disjunctions, inequalities, and type constraints. Conventional approaches, which mostly employ
naive or similarity-based retrieval, could easily get a surfeit or an insufficiency of contextual
information. For example, before proof generation, PALM [33] simply retrieves all relevant premises
from the global environment. In this case, it would be overwhelmed by hundreds of existing premises
on integer arithmetic, most of which are irrelevant in the context. Conversely, Rango [48] retrieves
lemmas based on lexical similarities, an imprecise metric that often fails to identify semantically
relevant lemmas. This is why Rango fails to prove the example: it cannot pinpoint the specific
contextual assumptions on integer bounds and arithmetic properties required for the proof.
In contrast, AutoRocq employs an agentic context search that autonomously decides, based on
the current proof state, if it should make a tactic prediction, or if it should gather more context.
In the latter case, we facilitate its requests for context with fine-grained query commands (see
Table 1). For instance, it can leverage “Search (Z.abs _ <= _).” to fetch all lemmas and definitions that
involve absolute values (Z.abs) and match the specified wildcard pattern. As a result, the lemma
Z.abs_le (line 12 in Figure 1(a)) is retrieved, which is crucial for reasoning about absolute values
in the context. This autonomy enables the agent to retrieve additional context from the theorem
prover on demand, supporting it to reason about lemmas with rich contexts. It is worth noting that
our contribution is not on how to extract certain terms or patterns in the theorem prover; rather, it
is to build an agentic system that knows when to search and what patterns to search intelligently.
Understanding of proving progress. A complicated lemma such as wp_goal requires a delicate
sequence of tactics to prove. When generating such sequences, however, existing LLM-based
methods lack structured representations of the proof process. They typically rely on simple goal
lists rather than structured proof trees. This textual and linear representation of the proof state
makes them overly focus on predicting a single tactic without a holistic view of the proving
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.


6
H. Tu, H. Zhao, Y. Song, M. Zafar, R. Meng, and A. Roychoudhury
progress. As a result, they often fail to adapt to the evolving state of the partially generated proof.
AutoRocq explicitly maintains a well-structured proof tree representation, as shown in Figure 1(b).
It captures the hierarchical structure and dependencies of the proof derivation. The proof tree is
built gradually as the proving advances. For instance, AutoRocq carefully decomposes the original
goal into multiple subgoals with the destruct tactic, resulting in the branching in Figure 1. This
structure-aware representation enables strategic reasoning about proof progress, tactical decisions,
and effective tracking of proof dependencies. As such, our proof agent is able to interpret the proof
derivation from a higher level, thus achieving more effective proof generation.
Harnessing the feedback. Developing proofs, especially for intricate lemmas, is a trial-and-error
process, and interactive theorem provers are designed to provide timely feedback to guide the
proving process. Nonetheless, existing approaches hardly leverage this opportunity to refine their
tactics. For example, PALM [33] only performs deterministic repairs to failed tactics, whereas
Rango [48] takes only binary signals from the proof assistant and retries the prediction again.
AutoRocq implements an effective feedback mechanism that incorporates the feedback from the
prover to refine individual tactics. In addition, it also recognizes persistent errors from the history,
and conducts autonomous context searches to collect additional context progressively. This process
allows our agent to learn continuously from both failures and successes. In this example, despite 48
failed tactic applications (59 attempts in total) during proving, AutoRocq eventually recovers and
synthesizes a complete proof in a short time (i.e., 156.7 seconds).
Collectively, we have an agentic proof system that can autonomously decide when and how to
incorporate additional contexts and adapt strategies based on the feedback. A high-level interpreta-
tion of the proof derivation from the expressive proof tree supports such an agency. In principle,
this process is analogous to how an expert human prover would approach the task. In Section 4,
we will explain each of these components in detail.
4
Proof Automation with AutoRocq
Overview. Figure 2 shows the overall workflow of AutoRocq. At a high level, it is an LLM
agent that takes autonomous actions to carry out a human-like proving process. Specifically,
given a lemma and the initial context (i.e., proof state), AutoRocq performs an agentic context
analysis to generate a tactic if the context is sufficient, or a query command if additional context is
needed (Section 4.1). Then, AutoRocq generates a sequence of tactics by interpreting formal proof
representations (i.e., proof tree), analyzing them, and communicating with the Rocq proof assistant
autonomously (Section 4.2). During communication, a context-assisted feedback loop is established
to either refine an incorrect tactic application or provide additional context to the LLM if the errors
persist (Section 4.3). The output of a successful proof is a certificate consisting of a sequence of
tactics that can be replayed in the interactive theorem prover to verify the proof.
4.1
Context-Aware Tactic Generation
Previous works [30, 33, 48, 52] have demonstrated that additional information helps LLMs generate
valid tactics. Such additional information, which we refer to as the context, typically include lemmas,
definitions, and existing proof steps that are relevant in constructing the proof. Existing approaches,
however, tend to augment LLMs with blindly selected context – typically a long list of premises [33]
or existing proofs [48] ordered by a predefined similarity metric – without a good understanding of
the current proof state or the progress of the proof. We argue that, before suggesting a new tactic,
an intelligent proof system should be able to analyze the current proof state and the progress of
the proof to decide if more context is needed. This system should carefully determine what context
information is needed and when to add it, so that unnecessary noise is reduced to a minimum. To
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.


Agentic Program Verification
7
…
No
No
Sufficient?
Context-aware Tactic Generation (§4.1)
Yes
No
Proof Tree-aware Interpretation (§4.2)
History
Manager
Applied?
Qed?
Tactic 1:
intro …
Fixable?
…
Yes
Proof 
Certificate
No
Rocq
Historical Proofs:
{“tactic”: ”subst x.",
“goals”: “…”, ...}
Context:
0. Proof.
Goal: i1 = 10
Lemma: …
is_sint32 i1 ->
(i1 = 10%Z).
More Context:
Z.abs_le:
forall x : int …
Query:
Search
(Z.abs _ <= _).
Tactic 1’:
destruct ...
Error
Analysis
Yes
Context-assisted Feedback Handling (§4.3)
Context 
Analysis
Yes
End
Rocq
Fig. 2. Overview of AutoRocq, where components involving decision-making by LLMs are highlighted.
Table 1. List of Supported Context Query Commands in AutoRocq
Command
Description
Output
Search <pattern>
Search for a pattern (e.g., a term).
A list of matched declarations.
Print <identifier>
Print the definition of an identifier.
Full definition of the identifier.
Locate <identifier>
Locate where an identifier is defined.
Path or location of the identifier.
About <identifier>
Show information about an identifier.
Type and summary of the identifier.
Check <term>
Type-check a term or expression.
Type of the term or expression.
support this autonomy, an agentic context-aware search mechanism is needed. Such a context-
aware approach can significantly reduce the amount of context added to the LLM, which could
help the LLM focus on the current proof state and generate a more accurate tactic.
To achieve agentic context search, we couple a context analysis module with an agent that
autonomously decides when and how to query the proof assistant’s database. The agent performs
continuous context analysis: if the current context is deemed sufficient, the agent directly generates
a tactic to advance the proof; if a key piece of information (e.g., the definition of a term is_sint32
or a proved lemma in an imported library) is missing, the agent can submit a context query to
retrieve it. To retrieve the context, it constructs a precise Search command, such as “Search is_sint32”.
This command is forwarded to the Rocq proof assistant, which searches its currently loaded libraries
for matching identifiers, lemmas, and definitions. The results of this query are then incorporated
into the LLM’s context, enriching it for subsequent attempts at tactic generation.
Agentic Context Analysis
Prompt: “Analyze the current {proof tree} and Top-5 {historical tactics}. If sufficient information
is available, generate a tactic to proceed. Otherwise, output a query command to retrieve
additional context.”
Response: Search (Z. abs _ <= _).
The supported context query commands are listed in Table 1. By default, AutoRocq supports
the standard query commands available in the Rocq GUI (CoqIDE), including Search, Print, Locate,
About, and Check. These commands enable AutoRocq to retrieve critical context information on
demand, significantly aiding the proof process. Among these, the Search command is the most
frequently used (see Section 6.2). Its versatility is the key: it allows for discovery based on name
patterns, type signatures, and existing lemma names [47]. This makes Search the primary tool for
pinpointing relevant declarations without knowing their exact names or forms.
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.


8
H. Tu, H. Zhao, Y. Song, M. Zafar, R. Meng, and A. Roychoudhury
4.2
Proof Tree-Aware Interpretation
The key component empowering AutoRocq’s agency is an expressive proof tree representation
that enables high-level interpretation of the proof derivation. Compared to the textual or linear
representation of proof states (e.g., a list of goals), the explicit tree structure conduces understanding
of the proving process. Formally, we define a proof tree as follows [22, 26].
Definition (Proof Tree). Let Σ be the proving context1, 𝐺be the initial proof goal, and 𝑆be a list of
tactics that proves 𝐺under Σ. A proof tree 𝑇(Σ,𝐺,𝑆) is inductively defined as follows:
• Each node 𝑁𝐴corresponds to a goal Σ ⊢𝐴, i.e., a statement 𝐴to be proved under Σ.
• The root node is 𝑁𝐺:= Σ ⊢𝐺.
• When a tactic 𝜏∈𝑆is applied to a node 𝑁𝐴:= Σ ⊢𝐴, it either (1) generates zero subgoals, in
which case 𝑁𝐴is a leaf, or (2) generates 𝑛subgoals/nodes {𝑁𝐴𝑖:= Σ ⊢𝐴𝑖| 𝑖= 1, . . . ,𝑛}, and
creates edges 𝑁𝐴→𝑁𝐴𝑖.
• A node is a leaf if it is directly derivable under Σ, i.e., no further subgoals are produced.
Intuitively, a proof script 𝑆induces a proof tree 𝑇in its enclosing context Σ, rooted at the
original proof goal 𝐺. Each node represents a subgoal to be proved, produced a tactic application is
represented as an edge. Leaves are subgoals that are trivially true or could be easily proved with a
single tactic. The goal is complete when all the sub-goals in the leaves are proved.
AutoRocq explicitly maintains a (partial) proof tree as it progresses in tactic generation. After a
successful tactic application, it examines the open subgoals from the Rocq proof assistant. If the
tactic successfully proves the current subgoal (i.e. a leaf node), AutoRocq marks it as closed, and
shifts its focus to another residual subgoal. When the tactic creates multiple subgoals, it creates
these nodes in the tree and determines one of the new subgoals to work on. In this way, the proof
tree is updated by extending the current node. On the other hand, if the tactic fails, our agent
remains at the current node on the proof tree for further attempts. During the entire proving process,
the proof states in subgoals and tactic applications are continuously updated until a complete
tree is constructed. Figure 1(b) shows an example of a proof tree after all tactics were applied in
the motivating example presented in Figure 1(a). From the tree, we could see that four subgoals
were generated in total, and the lemmas with a violet background were retrieved from our agentic
context search. The proof is completed when all leaves are closed.
Whenever the proof tree is updated, AutoRocq interprets the tree structure comprehensively to
reevaluate the current progress. It does so by traversing the (partial) proof tree to identify the open
subgoals, and how they relate to the existing proof structure. With a holistic view of the entire
derivation process, it then proceeds to generate a sequence of tactics iteratively.
We note that our key contribution is not about formulating the proof tree structure. Instead,
our insight lies in the realization that high-level interpretation enables LLM agents to carry out
autonomous decision-making and actions. The benefits provided by our proof tree representation
are twofold. First, it captures the hierarchical structure of the proof, including the relationships
between tactics and subgoals, which provides a richer context for interpreting the proof process.
Second, it allows AutoRocq to systematically break down the proof into smaller subgoals and
tackle them one by one, which is more aligned with how humans approach proving.
4.3
Context-Assisted Feedback Handling
To emulate a trial-and-error feedback loop, we augment AutoRocq with feedback handling mecha-
nisms to collaborate with the Rocq ITP. Based on the error that occurs, AutoRocq employs two
strategies during tactic generation: (1) revising the tactic based on the error message when a single
1Here, Σ captures both the global environment and the local context, as they are not differentiated in our context search.
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.


Agentic Program Verification
9
error occurs, and (2) initiating a context search to retrieve additional context when persistent
errors occur. In addition, AutoRocq takes positive feedback from past successes. We delegate each
mechanism to a subsection as below.
4.3.1
Handling a Single Error with Strategic Fixing. When a tactic fails to apply to a subgoal, the ITP
provides an error message indicating the reason for the failure. As shown in the following example,
AutoRocq captures this error message and feeds it back to the LLM, along with the current proof
tree. The LLM then analyzes the error message and the context to generate a revised tactic to fix the
issue. Subsequently, the revised tactic is applied again, and the proof tree is updated accordingly.
Agentic Error Handling of a Single Error
Prompt: “The previous {tactic} failed to apply to the current subgoal with the following {error
message} from Rocq: {error message}. Analyze the error and generate a corrected tactic.”
Response: destruct Hcases as [H10 | [Hn10 | Hle9]].
4.3.2
Handling Persistent Errors with Context Search. If the same error persists after several repair
attempts (which is treated as not fixable as shown in Figure 2), AutoRocq recognizes that the current
context may be insufficient to resolve the subgoal. In such cases, AutoRocq initiates a context
search by issuing a query command to the ITP to retrieve additional context information, similar to
the process described in Section 4.1. The retrieved context is then incorporated into the LLM’s input,
and the LLM generates a new tactic based on the enriched context. This context-assisted feedback
loop continues until the subgoal is successfully solved or a predefined termination condition is met
(e.g., maximum number of attempts). For example, the following shows how AutoRocq handles
persistent errors. Given the failed tactics and the proof tree, our agent returns a query command to
search for what is defined in the integer quotient from the Z.quot module.
Agentic Error Handling of Persistent Errors
Prompt: “The agent has repeatedly generated {failed tactics} for the current subgoal multiple
times. Analyze the current {proof tree} and determine what additional context is needed to
proceed. Output a query command to retrieve the necessary context information.”
Response: Search (Z. quot _ _).
4.3.3
Managing Historical Proofs. When a lemma is successfully proved, AutoRocq stores com-
prehensive tactic history records that capture the complete context and evolution of each proof
step. Each record contains the applied tactic, the proof goals before and after tactic application, the
available hypotheses and their changes, along with metadata including the theorem name, and the
tactic ID within the proof sequence. This rich historical information serves multiple purposes: (1) it
enables AutoRocq to learn from successful proof patterns and reuse effective tactic sequences in
similar contexts, (2) it provides detailed examples for context-aware tactic generation by showing
how specific goals were transformed, and (3) it supports the feedback handling mechanism by
offering concrete instances of successful problem-solving strategies. By maintaining this detailed
provenance of proof construction, AutoRocq can build a knowledge base of proven tactics that
enhances its capability to tackle new lemmas with similar structural patterns or mathematical
properties (the experiment results presented in Section 6.2 also support our claim).
Implementation. We implemented AutoRocq in approximately 8k lines of Python code with a
modular architecture that separates the core proving logic, theorem prover interface, and supporting
utilities. The main Rocq backend is implemented using the CoqPyt (v1.0.0) library [9] to interact
with the Rocq proof assistant. The implementation follows an iterative workflow as shown in
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.


10
H. Tu, H. Zhao, Y. Song, M. Zafar, R. Meng, and A. Roychoudhury
Figure 2. The modular design enables easy extension and maintenance while supporting the three
key components of our approach: context-aware tactic generation, proof tree management, and
feedback handling. Historical proof data is stored in JSON format to enable learning from successful
proof patterns for future lemmas. For the LLM backend, we use GPT-4.1 as the backbone model for
all LLM interactions. We set the temperature to 0 for reproducibility.
5
Experimental Setup
To evaluate the effectiveness of AutoRocq on program verification tasks, we seek to answer the
following research questions (RQs):
RQ.1: Is AutoRocq more effective at proving lemmas than state-of-the-art approaches?
RQ.2: How does each component of AutoRocq contribute to its effectiveness?
RQ.3: How do the proofs generated by AutoRocq compare with human written proofs?
In this section, we first present our experimental setup. We then analyze the detailed results in
Section 6. We also conduct case studies on verifying individual Linux kernel modules in Section 7.
5.1
Preparation of Lemmas from Programs
5.1.1
Lemmas for Program Verification Tasks. While benchmarks like CoqGym [51] provide a
valuable corpus of human-written theorems, they are drawn primarily from mathematical libraries
and do not capture the complexity of program verification lemmas found in real-world software.
Since AutoRocq is designed to automate program verification, its evaluation requires a benchmark
of lemmas extracted from real programs. To our knowledge, no such dataset currently exists, leaving
a critical gap in the program verification field.
To address this gap, we construct a new benchmark by systematically extracting lemmas from
real-world C programs. This benchmark enables the evaluation of AutoRocq and facilitates future
research in automatic program verification. We source our subject programs from SV-COMP [7]
for two key reasons: their widespread adoption in the formal verification community ensures they
represent a diverse set of C language constructs, and their inclusion of ground-truth specifications
provides meaningful proof obligations. Our selection focused on the most common property types
in SV-COMP: functional correctness, defined by the unreachability of error calls, and non-overflow.
The final criteria mandated that a program must (1) be verified for both properties and (2) exhibit
deterministic behavior (e.g., no multi-threading). Applying these criteria yielded a final benchmark
of 131 C programs from SV-COMP. The programs have an average of 43.06 lines of code, with the
largest (the BusyBox [1] utility basename) comprising 428 lines.
5.1.2
Lemma Extraction Methodology. We designed a systematic method to automatically extract
lemmas from the selected SV-COMP programs. We focus on generating non-trivial lemmas that
necessitate reasoning about program semantics, as opposed to simple lemmas that can be discharged
with basic tactics (e.g., auto.). Our approach utilizes Frama-C [12] to generate the necessary proof
obligations from the program code.
Technically, we first use the RTE plug-in [3] to annotate the source code with formal contracts
in the ANSI/ISO C Specification Language (ACSL), including preconditions and postconditions.
As Frama-C cannot automatically infer loop invariants, we address this by employing LLMs to
generate candidate invariants based on the loop’s context and structure. Each candidate is validated
through property testing with the Eva plug-in [2]; unsuccessful candidates are refined iteratively
until a verifiably correct invariant is established. Note that while property testing can falsify
incorrect invariants by discovering counterexamples, it cannot formally prove the correctness of an
invariant – that it holds for all possible program executions. We justify this design choice as loop
invariant inference is a long-standing, challenging problem [20, 35] that is orthogonal to our core
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.


Agentic Program Verification
11
0
50
100
150
200
250
300+
300+
0%
2%
4%
SV-COMP
CoqGym
(a) Term Count
0
5
10
15
20
25
30+
30+
0%
20%
40%
SV-COMP
CoqGym
(b) Hypothesis Count
Fig. 3. Histogram of different complexity metrics: lemmas from SV-COMP programs (blue) vs. CoqGym
(orange). Not a single lemma from CoqGym involves more than 100 terms or 7 hypotheses.
focus on proof automation. Once the code is fully annotated and verified, we employ Frama-C’s
WP plug-in [4] to generate proof obligations. These obligations are automatically translated into
lemmas, which can be discharged in the Rocq proof assistant. The overall framework completes an
end-to-end automated workflow from C programs to verifiable Rocq lemmas.
As a result, we collected 641 lemmas extracted from the verification of two types of target
properties: non-overflow and functional correctness. Since both property types often require
reasoning about loops, a significant portion of the generated proof obligations are related to
loop invariants. These are essential intermediate lemmas needed to conclude that either a non-
overflow or a functional correctness property holds for the entire program. Consequently, the
641 lemmas comprise three categories, reflecting their role in the proof: i. non-overflow lemmas
(203, 31.7%): direct proof obligations for non-overflow properties; ii. functional correctness lemmas
(153, 23.9%): direct proof obligations for functional properties; and iii. loop invariant lemmas (285,
44.5%): Supporting lemmas required to prove the loop invariants necessary for establishing both
non-overflow and functional correctness properties. Together, these lemmas represent a diverse set
of challenging proof obligations that arise in real-world program verification tasks.
5.1.3
Comparison of Extracted Lemmas and Existing Lemmas. To quantify the complexity and
difficulty of lemmas extracted from SV-COMP programs, we compare them against existing lemmas
from CoqGym. To do this, one commonly used proxy is the difficulty of proving a lemma, since more
sophisticated lemmas generally necessitate longer proofs involving more cases and derivation steps.
Unfortunately, this is infeasible for our purpose, since no ground-truth proofs are readily available
for our extracted lemmas. As such, we directly examine these lemmas themselves from the extracted
641 lemmas from Section 5.1 and 625 lemmas across four projects (i.e., dblib, zfc, hoare-tut, and
huffman) from CoqGym’s testing partition [51]. We choose these four projects as they represent the
common type of existing human-written lemmas, such as logical tautology, coding algorithms, and
theory formalizations, and they have been extensively studied in the research community [8, 33, 48].
Specifically, we propose two metrics: (a) term count: the number of terms (variables, quantifiers,
operators) to gauge structural complexity, and (b) hypothesis count: the number of assumptions to
measure the richness of the semantic context.
In Figure 3, we report the complexity distribution of the lemmas by measuring the percentage of
lemmas (y-axis) with a given complexity metric (term or hypothesis count, x-axis). For both metrics,
the lemmas from CoqGym (orange) densely concentrate on the left end of the axis, suggesting
uniformly lower complexity. In contrast, lemmas extracted from SV-COMP programs (blue) exhibit
a more even distribution, with a lower peak and a long right tail, reflecting generally higher
complexity. Concretely, 48% of these lemmas from SV-COMP programs consist of >100 terms, and
52% of them are associated with >7 hypotheses; no lemma from CoqGym satisfies either constraint.
The stark contrast across both metrics suggests that the obligations extracted from real-world
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.


12
H. Tu, H. Zhao, Y. Song, M. Zafar, R. Meng, and A. Roychoudhury
programs, which often capture intricate logic in the code, tend to have much higher complexity
than their benchmark counterparts. Concretely, below shows an example lemma from hoare_tut,
a project in CoqGym. It states that the non-equality function Zneq_bool correctly returns false only
if x = y. It is much simpler than lemmas from program verification tasks, as shown in Figure 1(a).
Lemma Zneq_bool_false: forall x y, Zneq_bool x y=false →x=y.
5.2
Baselines and Benchmarks
Baselines. We compare AutoRocq with state-of-the-art tools developed for proof automation
in Rocq. We choose four baselines, namely Rango [48], PALM [34], QEDCartographer [43] (or
QEDC for short), and Proverbot9001 [41] (or P9001 for short). These tools have shown excep-
tional results on proof automation tasks, and they employ different machine-learning techniques:
standard LLMs, fine-tuned LLMs, reinforcement learning, and recurrent neural networks (RNNs),
respectively. AutoRocq and PALM, which invoke closed-source LLM through APIs, use GPT-4.1
as the backend with temperature 0. For the other three baselines, we use the pre-trained weights
made available in their artifacts. These include a fine-tuned version of DeepSeek-Coder used by
Rango, a reinforcement-learning-based tactic selection agent employed by QEDC, and a custom
tactic prediction network in P9001. They also have access to a single Nvidia A40 GPU with 48GB of
VRAM if needed. We use the default settings for all the tools. Rango times out after 10 minutes,
and QEDC is limited to 512 generation steps. PALM and P9001 are executed until completion. We
set up all the baselines in Docker on Ubuntu 22.04. Other than PALM, which uses older Rocq 8.12
for compatibility reasons, all the other tools are configured with Rocq 8.18.
Benchmarks used in Evaluation. To conduct a comprehensive evaluation, we use the two
benchmark sets mentioned in Section 5.1.3, including 625 lemmas from CoqGym [51] and 641
lemmas extracted from real-world programs in SV-COMP [7]. At the end, we have 1,266 lemmas
evenly distributed across CoqGym and SV-COMP programs for our evaluation.
6
Experimental Results
6.1
RQ.1: Effectiveness of AutoRocq
For this research question, we investigate AutoRocq’s effectiveness in proof generation on both
(a) a non-program-related subset of lemmas from CoqGym, and (b) new lemmas extracted from
SV-COMP programs. We report the number of proved lemmas from each tool in Figure 4. Figure
4(a) shows the total number of lemmas successfully proved by each tool. Figure 4(b) presents the
detailed breakdown of the lemmas proven by each tool, on CoqGym (left) and SV-COMP programs
(right). We note that PALM’s results (in green) may not reflect its full capability, as several lemmas
in the benchmarks are incompatible with Rocq 8.12.
Lemmas from CoqGym. From Figure 4(a), we observe that AutoRocq successfully proves 319
of them (51.1%), outperforming other tools by a large margin of 20.8% (compared with Rango [48])
to 343.0% (compared with PALM [33]). Among the baseline tools, Rango performs the best on this
dataset, synthesizing proofs for 264 (42.3%) of the lemmas on CoqGym. The Venn diagram (Figure
4(b), left) also demonstrates that AutoRocq proves the most lemmas (98) uniquely. Our tool is
followed by Rango and PALM, which account for 30 and 18 uniquely proved lemmas, respectively.
The results suggest that AutoRocq is highly effective in automatic proof generation.
Lemmas from SV-COMP programs. More importantly, we study complex proof obligations
that represent real verification workflows. These lemmas from SV-COMP programs indeed pose
a greater challenge to all LLM-based tools, namely AutoRocq, Rango, and PALM, as evidenced
by their lower success rates overall. AutoRocq manages to prove 198 lemmas (30.9%) from the
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.


Agentic Program Verification
13
CoqGym
SV-COMP
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
# of Proved Lemmas
319
198
264
139
159
65
72
134
128
131
AutoRocq
Rango
PALM
QEDC
P9001
(a) # of lemmas proved by each tool.
2
1
1
18
0
0
0
30
14
2
1
11
1
2
0
98
2
1
2
19
2
1
3
45
16
2
15
38
21
2
32
CoqGym
6
0
2
0
1
0
1
4
0
3
4
0
0
0
2
44
0
3
11
7
4
0
3
12
3
14
50
1
5
2
39
SV-COMP
AutoRocq
Rango
PALM
QEDC
P9001
(b) Venn diagram of successfully proved lemmas by each tool, from CoqGym
(left) and SV-COMP programs (right).
Fig. 4. [RQ.1] Lemmas proved by each tool on CoqGym and SV-COMP programs. On both benchmarks,
AutoRocq is able to prove more lemmas, and has the most number of uniquely proved lemmas.
0-99
100-149
150-199
200-299
300+
0
20
40
60
80
# of Proved Lemmas
AutoRocq
Rango
PALM
QEDC
P9001
(a) Breakdown by term count.
0-9
10-14
15-19
20-29
30+
0
20
40
60
80
# of Proved Lemmas
AutoRocq
Rango
PALM
QEDC
P9001
(b) Breakdown by hypothesis count.
Fig. 5. [RQ.1] # of lemmas proved from SV-COMP programs: a breakdown by lemmas’ complexity.
benchmark, which is significantly higher than all other baseline tools. Results produced by Rango,
QEDC, and P9001 lie in close proximity with one another, with each producing proofs for around
135 lemmas. AutoRocq outperforms them by 42.4%, 47.8%, and 51.1%, respectively. The number of
lemmas proved by AutoRocq is also 204.6% higher than that of PALM.
Figure 4(b) (right) shows that AutoRocq generates proof scripts for 44 unique lemmas (owing
to its agentic workflow) that no other tool can prove. In contrast, no other tool is able to generate
proofs uniquely for more than 6 lemmas. In fact, only 23 lemmas proved by any other baselines
elude AutoRocq! We note that there is a large overlap among the successes of baseline tools. There
are 106 lemmas that are proved commonly by at least three of the baselines, suggesting a strong
convergence in capabilities among them.
To better understand the high effectiveness of AutoRocq, we further correlate the number
of successfully proved SV-COMP lemmas with their complexity. Figure 5 details the breakdown
of successful attempts from different tools, grouped into five complexity buckets. We present
the breakdown for both the term count (left) and the hypothesis count (right) in the original
goal. Buckets on the right correspond to lemmas containing more terms/hypotheses, and thus are
typically more structurally and contextually complicated. Results reveal an emerging pattern: as
the original goal becomes more verbose and richer in context, the number of successfully proved
lemmas decreases in general. However, AutoRocq retains its relative effectiveness in proving
longer, more complex goals, resulting in a uniform lead across different complexity levels.
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.


14
H. Tu, H. Zhao, Y. Song, M. Zafar, R. Meng, and A. Roychoudhury
Additionally, we report the breakdown by the categories of lemmas, as shown in Figure 6. Results
show that AutoRocq is particularly effective in proving non-overflow-related lemmas and loop
invariants in the program, outperforming the best baselines by 53% and 22%, respectively. On
lemmas related to functional correctness, AutoRocq also performs comparably with three baseline
approaches. Results indicate AutoRocq’s performance is consistent for verifying different types of
program properties, showing its versatility and generality.
We also compare the efficiency of different tools in terms of the time taken to generate a successful
proof on the SV-COMP lemmas. On average, AutoRocq takes 21.3 seconds to generate a successful
proof, expending less time than other LLM-based approaches, namely Rango (105.5 seconds) and
PALM (45.4 seconds). AutoRocq’s result is also comparable to P9001 (22.6 seconds). Notably,
QEDC finishes extremely fast (5.1 seconds) when it does succeed, thanks to its well-optimized
tactic-prediction model for the tactic generation.
We hypothesize that AutoRocq’s remarkable efficacy and efficiency stem from its agentic
access to the proof context, strategic tactic fixing, and effective communication between the LLM
and ITPs. These collectively enable the agent to discover and apply relevant facts and lemmas
dynamically during the proof search. These capabilities could be particularly beneficial for complex
proof obligations, which often require non-trivial reasoning steps and the application of specific
lemmas or theorems. In the next research question (Section 6.2), we evaluate the design decisions
of AutoRocq to gain a deeper understanding of the system.
Answer to RQ.1: Overall, AutoRocq is significantly more effective in proving obligations
extracted from real C programs (SV-COMP), outperforming baselines by 42%–205%. Notably,
AutoRocq proves 44 lemmas that none of the other approaches can prove. It also outperforms
the baselines by a similar margin on mathematical lemmas from CoqGym.
Non-Overflow
Loop Invariant
Func. Correctness
0
20
40
60
80
100
# of Proved Lemmas
92
66
40
60
38
41
15
31
19
50
42
42
37
54
40
AutoRocq
Rango
PALM
QEDC
P9001
Fig. 6. [RQ.1] # of lemmas proved from SV-COMP
programs: a breakdown by the category of lemmas.
Search
About
Print
Check
Locate
101
102
103
104
Log Count
Fig. 7. [RQ.2] The log frequency of invocation for
context search commands on SV-COMP programs.
6.2
RQ.2: Design Choices of AutoRocq
To better understand the interplay between AutoRocq’s components, we evaluate how different
design choices affect the overall effectiveness by implementing 6 variants of AutoRocq. We conduct
the evaluation on 70 randomly sampled lemmas from the SV-COMP programs. Specifically, we
examine the following variant approaches:
• ¬𝐶𝑆: No context search (Section 4.1). Instead, tactics are directly generated through prompting.
• ¬𝑃𝑇: No proof tree awareness (Section 4.2). Instead, proof states are encoded as plain texts.
• ¬𝐸𝐹, ¬𝐻𝑀: No error feedback or history manager (Section 4.3).
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.


Agentic Program Verification
15
Table 2. [RQ.2] Success rates of different variants of AutoRocq on verifying sampled SV-COMP programs.
All components contribute to the overall effectiveness, with context search (¬𝐶𝑆) being the most significant.
AutoRocq
¬𝐶𝑆
¬𝑃𝑇
¬𝐸𝐹
¬𝐻𝑀
𝐸𝑟𝑟1
𝐸𝑟𝑟5
Success Rate
44.3%
30.0%
40.0%
38.6%
41.4%
37.1%
38.6%
Relative Improv.
–
+47.6%
+10.7%
+14.8%
+6.9%
+19.2%
+14.8%
• 𝐸𝑟𝑟1, 𝐸𝑟𝑟3, and 𝐸𝑟𝑟5: The maximum number of errors encountered before context search. We
evaluate three settings of the maximum number of errors encountered before seeking context
search. We found that the value 3 is the most effective setting, and is used in AutoRocq. This
is expected, as more frequent context queries (𝐸𝑟𝑟1) may confuse the agent with unnecessary
information, whereas fewer queries (𝐸𝑟𝑟5) may not supply sufficient context.
We report the success rates, and AutoRocq’s relative improvement, of different variants in
Table 2. Results show that all variants only prove a fraction of lemmas compared to full-fledged
AutoRocq. In particular, AutoRocq sees the most significant improvement from the ablative
version ¬𝐶𝑆, which replaces the context search component with a direct request of tactic through
prompting. This indicates that agentic access to the proof context contributes the most to our
approach’s effectiveness. Intriguingly, querying for contexts much more frequently (𝐸𝑟𝑟1) or less
frequently (𝐸𝑟𝑟5) also affects the results negatively, suggesting that the amount of contexts supplied
to the agent is paramount in practice. Removing other components in our approach, namely the
proof-tree representation (¬𝑃𝑇) or the feedback mechanisms (¬𝐸𝐹and ¬𝐻𝑀), each reduces the
efficacy moderately by ∼10% −15%. We conclude that all components of AutoRocq are useful.
To visualize how AutoRocq conducts the context search, we summarize the frequency of
invocation for different search commands provided by our framework (Table 1). We plot these
frequencies in log scale, as shown in Figure 7. Statistics show that Search is the most frequently
used command. Its primacy stems from its unique ability to solve the fundamental problem of
discovery: it allows users to find relevant lemmas and theorems without prior knowledge of their
names by searching for patterns. In essence, Search directly facilitates the core intellectual challenge
of finding the right fact at the right time. It also reflects the fact that many proof obligations in our
benchmarks require non-trivial reasoning steps, which often hinge on the application of specific
lemmas or theorems. We dig into the specific patterns searched by AutoRocq, and find that they
often involve complex expressions with multiple operators and operands, e.g., “(_ * _ <= _ * _) ”,
“Z.abs (_ + _) ”, and “(_ + _ <= _) ”, which are challenging to write for inexperienced Rocq users.
In short, the above facts highlight that AutoRocq’s agentic access to the proof context through
invocation of Search and other queries is pivotal in its efficacy.
Answer to RQ.2: Each component of AutoRocq contributes to its overall effectiveness.
AutoRocq’s agentic context search enhances its efficacy most significantly.
6.3
RQ.3: Comparison to Human-written Proofs
Since there is no ground truth for the lemmas extracted from SV-COMP programs, we cannot directly
compare the proofs synthesized by AutoRocq with human-written proofs. In this subsection, we
closely examine a proof synthesized by AutoRocq, and compare it to a manually crafted proof by
a Rocq expert. The expert has more than six years of formal verification experience and one year
of practical experience with Rocq. We use the same theorem wp_goal as presented in Figure 1(a),
and report the human-written proof in Figure 8.
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.


16
H. Tu, H. Zhao, Y. Song, M. Zafar, R. Meng, and A. Roychoudhury
1
Theorem wp_goal :
2
forall (i:Numbers.BinNums.Z) (i1:Numbers.BinNums.Z),
3
let x := (i1 * i1)%Z in ((-9%Z)%Z <= i1)%Z →
4
((-9%Z)%Z <= i)%Z →(i <= 9%Z)%Z →(i1 <= 10%Z)%Z →
5
(i <= 10%Z)%Z →((-2147483648%Z)%Z <= x)%Z →
6
(100%Z <= x)%Z →(x <= 2147483647%Z)%Z →is_sint32 i1 →
7
is_sint32 i →(i1 = 10%Z).
8
9
(* Helper lemmas written by the human prover*)
10
Lemma square_le_mono_nonneg :
11
forall a b, 0 <= a →0 <= b →a * a <= b * b →a <= b.
12
Proof. intros a b Ha Hb Hsq. nia. Qed.
13
Lemma square_le_mono_neg :
14
forall a b, a < 0 →b < 0 →a * a <= b * b →b <= a.
15
Proof. intros a b Ha Hb Hsq. nia. Qed.
(a) wp_goal in Figure 1(a) with human helper lemmas.
1
Proof.
2
intros. subst x. assert (Hcases: 0 <= i1 ∨i1 < 0) by lia.
3
destruct Hcases as [Hge0 | Hlt0].
4
- assert (H10: 0 <= 10) by lia.
5
pose square_le_mono_nonneg.
6
specialize (l 10 i1 H10 Hge0).
7
simpl in l.
8
specialize (l H5). lia.
9
- pose square_le_mono_neg.
10
specialize (l (-10) i1).
11
assert (Hn10: -10 < 0) by lia.
12
specialize (l Hn10 Hlt0).
13
simpl in l.
14
specialize (l H5). lia.
15
Qed.
(b) Main proof script written by a human Rocq expert.
Fig. 8. [RQ.3] Proof for wp_goal in Figure 1(a), written by a human expert prover in 20 minutes.
To construct the proof in Figure 8(b), the expert had first to recognize that the problem’s core
reduces to the mathematical principle that, for any integer 𝑎, 𝑎2 ≥100 implies |𝑎| ≥10. This insight
is non-trivial, as it requires moving beyond a direct case-based enumeration of values to grasp
the underlying structural inequality. Only after achieving this conceptual leap could the expert
elegantly bifurcate the problem based on the sign of i1 and construct the two custom, symmetric
helper lemmas (lines 9–15 in Figure 8(a)) to complete the solution. Crafting this proof takes the
Rocq expert 20 minutes of time.
In contrast, let us consider again the proof generated automatically by AutoRocq in lines 9–23
in Figure 1(a). It took AutoRocq only 156.7 seconds to synthesize a proof for the same lemma. At a
high level, it achieves the same realization as the human prover, and focuses its proof on an explicit,
enumerative case analysis for the value of i1. It also quickly connects the goal to properties of
absolute values (Z.abs). Crucially, AutoRocq leverages two key lemmas from the global context to
assist its reasoning on absolute values, namely Z.abs_le at line 12 and Z.square_le_mono_nonneg
at line 19. This not only allows it to prove the goal successfully, but also proves it in noticeably
fewer steps than the human expert. Our log reveals that AutoRocq autonomously invokes multiple
context searches during its proving. Specifically, searching for the pattern “(_ * _ <= _ * _) ” surfaces
the crucial lemma used at line 19, which eventually helps AutoRocq to succeed. Unsurprisingly,
no other baseline tools are able to prove this lemma due to their lack of agency.
Answer to RQ.3: With the help of context queries, AutoRocq is able to prove challenging
lemmas, sometimes in even fewer steps than human experts. It also takes much less time.
6.4
Threats to Validity
Trustworthiness and Cost of LLMs. LLMs may give incomplete or factually wrong responses
to questions. As a result, verifying programs with untrusted LLMs may seem off-putting at first
glance. However, we note that the certificate essentially comes from the trusted kernel of Rocq,
which ensures that only derivations conforming to the formal rules of the proof assistant are
accepted [46]. Therefore, all the generated proof scripts are true positives and are trustworthy, as
any erroneous or misleading outputs from the LLMs will simply fail to be verified. Throughout our
experiments, it takes $1.22 on average to prove a single lemma without token caching. We deem
this cost acceptable, compared to the costly human involvement in lemma-proving activities.
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.


Agentic Program Verification
17
Table 3. [Cast Study] Verifying Linux kernel modules: # of lemmas proved, and the average time/steps (# of
tactics) expended on proved lemmas. Across all tools, proofs are constructed for 13 unique lemmas. AutoRocq
proves 12 (92%) of them, or 20% of all 60 lemmas.
Tools
AutoRocq
Rango
PALM
QEDC
P9001
Combined
Proved? (max. 60)
12
3
10
3
2
13
Avg. Time (sec)
29.9
96.2
39.4
2.0
160.8
–
Avg. Steps
8.3
32.0
–
32.0
979.0
–
Data Leakage. LLMs are trained on a large corpus of data; thus, they may have been exposed to
open-sourced Rocq projects. As such, LLM-based approaches, including AutoRocq, may report
inflated results on CoqGym, which comprises only lemmas and proofs in the public domain. In our
evaluation, we mitigate this risk by including obligations from SV-COMP programs. These lemmas
are extracted by us automatically (see more details in Section 5.1.2), and their ground-truth proofs
are not available. In fact, it is unclear if these lemmas are provable at all until we find a correct
proof, so we believe the risk of data leakage is minimal.
Lemma Selection. In our evaluation, we include established benchmarks and verification targets,
namely CoqGym and SV-COMP programs. The lemmas are selected systematically as detailed
in Section 5.1.1. We study (un)reachability and overflow freedom as examples of correctness and
safety properties, respectively, due to their universality. We also study the loop invariants proposed
by LLMs. However, certain types of programs or properties may pose systematic challenges to
our approach that we are unaware of. We plan to investigate more types of programs (e.g., multi-
threaded) or properties (e.g., memory safety) in future work.
7
Case Study: Verifying Linux Kernel Modules
AutoRocq has demonstrated remarkable efficacy in automatically synthesizing rigorous proofs
for lemmas related to smaller programs or a mathematical context. In this case study, we assess if
AutoRocq can handle the complexity of real-world software. To this end, we build on earlier efforts
[18, 49] to reason about properties in the Linux kernel. Specifically, we examine 60 lemmas that
formalize functional correctness in Linux kernel code. These lemmas reason about the correctness of
intricate program behaviors, and come from various source files, such as memory management (e.g.
memmove) and utilities such as string operations (e.g. strcpy) and type conversion (e.g. hex2bin).
These lemmas tend to be significantly more involved and may contain up to hundreds of terms.
We report the statistics in Table 3. Results show that AutoRocq is the most effective, being
able to synthesize the proofs for 12/60 (20%) lemmas. AutoRocq fails to construct a proof for
only one lemma that is proved by any other tools (in this case PALM and P9001). In contrast,
Rango, QEDC, and P9001 perform poorly on these tasks, which only manage to succeed in 3, 3, 2
lemmas, respectively. We also note that QEDC runs exceptionally fast when it is able to generate a
proof, being 15x faster than AutoRocq, which is the second fastest. This suggests that QEDC’s
search heuristic performs extremely well on certain cases. Nonetheless, such cases seem rare when
verifying real, complex software, as it only succeeds on 3 lemmas.
Notably, PALM also achieves remarkable effectiveness and manages to prove 10/60 lemmas. Upon
manual examination, we note that all successful proofs generated by PALM rely on heavy use of
CoqHammer [13], a plug-in that directly discharges remaining subgoals to automated theorem
provers (ATPs). CoqHammer is invoked by PALM as a last resort when none of its deterministic
tactics repairs or resolves the encountered errors. AutoRocq currently does not rely on any
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.


18
H. Tu, H. Zhao, Y. Song, M. Zafar, R. Meng, and A. Roychoudhury
external ATP to boost its performance. We note that more tools, such as with ATPs, could be easily
incorporated into our agentic workflow, which we leave as future work.
AutoRocq can be applied to verify properties in complex software such as the Linux kernel.
Access to more tools, e.g., automated theorem provers, may further improve our proof agent.
8
Related Work
8.1
Formal Verification Tools and Practices
Our work continues the advances on forging an end-to-end verification workflow for software, and
thus is closely related to pioneering efforts on verifying critical software systems [10, 25, 29, 36],
network protocols [53], and microprocessor designs [23]. Automation in formal verification is largely
underpinned by verification-oriented languages including Frama-C [24], Dafny [28], Verus [27],
and Viper [38], which integrate specification and proof directly into the programming workflow
through the use of annotations. These tool chains generate proof obligations automatically and
then attempt to discharge them to automated solvers [6, 16]. When such automation is insufficient,
interactive theorem provers (ITPs), such as Isabelle/HOL [39], Lean [15], and Rocq [11], are used as
the back end of the workflow. Our approach critically depends on the verification infrastructure.
8.2
Machine Learning for Program Verification
Our work builds on a rapidly growing body of work [31] that applies machine learning to program
verification. Related approaches include loop invariants inference [44, 45], automatic insertion of
annotations [32], and direct synthesis of verified methods [37]. Among these directions, our work
is most closely related to automatic approaches in theorem proving. We introduce a new paradigm
in this space: agentic approaches, in which agents interpret partial proofs and collaborate with a
theorem prover to construct complete ones. Our method extends and unifies three broad paradigms
of prior work, as detailed below.
Neural Proof Generation. A significant body of work treats theorem proving as a sequence-to-
sequence (seq2seq) translation task, and thus employs neural networks to learn from large corpora
of human-written proofs [19, 41, 51]. While effective at capturing common proof patterns, these
networks generate tactics purely based on their parametric knowledge, without a fine-grained,
dynamic understanding of the evolving proof state. This limitation is particularly acute in software
verification, where proofs are long, the state space is enormous, and the correct next step is highly
sensitive to the precise context.
Retrieval-Augmented Proving. To augment parametric models with more context, recent
works have integrated retrieval mechanisms to fetch relevant premises from a large library of
existing theorems during proof generation [33, 48]. This approach is promising because it grounds
the generation process in established facts. However, these approaches perform retrievals statically,
lacking a tight, iterative feedback loop between the proof state, the retriever, and the generator.
Consequently, the retriever may fetch axioms that are relevant to the overall theorem but useless
for the specific sub-goal the prover is currently tackling.
Reinforcement Learning. To better understand the proving progress, approaches like [50]
employ reinforcement learning, where each tactic application is awarded with immediate feedback
to facilitate incremental progress. The inherent sparsity of positive feedback prompts clever design
of reward functions that estimate the value of intermediate states [43]. However, such reward
functions often provide noisy signals or overfit to short-term goals, thereby hindering strategic,
long-horizon reasoning.
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.


Agentic Program Verification
19
9
Perspectives
We present an agentic proving system that automatically generates machine-checkable certificates
for proof obligations. At its core, our agent is an autonomous process that retrieves relevant contexts
on demand, incorporates feedback from the proof assistant, and generates tactics adaptively – all
guided by interpreting the proof derivation tree. Together with a lemma extraction process, our
agent can achieve effective push-button verification that takes source code in C (i.e., SV-COMP
programs and Linux kernel modules) and automatically generates proofs without any human effort.
As AI-generated code becomes increasingly prevalent in software development, the need for
automated verification becomes more pressing. Our work demonstrates that LLM agents can bridge
the gap between automatic code generation and formal verification, moving closer to the vision
of trusted automatic programming. The agentic nature of our approach suggests a paradigm shift
where verification tools act as intelligent collaborators rather than passive validators, capable of
autonomously navigating complex proof spaces and adapting to diverse verification challenges.
This represents a crucial step toward making formal verification accessible for real-world software
systems, where the combination of automated reasoning and agentic intelligence can provide the
rigor and scalability needed for next-generation software assurance.
References
[1] [n. d.]. BusyBox. https://busybox.net/
[2] [n. d.]. Evolved Value Analysis (Eva) Plug-in in Frama-C. https://frama-c.com/fc-plugins/eva.html
[3] [n. d.]. Runtime Error (RTE) Plug-in in Frama-C. https://www.frama-c.com/fc-plugins/rte.html
[4] [n. d.]. Weakest Precondition (WP) Plug-in in Frama-C. https://www.frama-c.com/fc-plugins/wp.html
[5] Wasi Ahmad, Saikat Chakraborty, Baishakhi Ray, and Kai-Wei Chang. 2021.
Unified Pre-training for Program
Understanding and Generation. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association
for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies. Association for Computational Linguistics.
[6] Haniel Barbosa, Clark Barrett, Martin Brain, Gereon Kremer, Hanna Lachnitt, Makai Mann, Abdalrhman Mohamed,
Mudathir Mohamed, Aina Niemetz, Andres Nötzli, et al. 2022. cvc5: A versatile and industrial-strength SMT solver. In
International Conference on Tools and Algorithms for the Construction and Analysis of Systems. Springer, 415–442.
[7] Dirk Beyer and Jan Strejček. 2025. Improvements in Software Verification and Witness Validation: SV-COMP 2025. In
Tools and Algorithms for the Construction and Analysis of Systems, Arie Gurfinkel and Marijn Heule (Eds.). Springer
Nature Switzerland, Cham, 151–186.
[8] Lasse Blaauwbroek, Josef Urban, and Herman Geuvers. 2020. The tactician: A seamless, interactive tactic learner and
prover for coq. In International Conference on Intelligent Computer Mathematics. Springer, 271–277.
[9] Pedro Carrott, Nuno Saavedra, Kyle Thompson, Sorin Lerner, João F Ferreira, and Emily First. 2024. CoqPyt: Proof
Navigation in Python in the Era of LLMs. In Companion Proceedings of the 32nd ACM International Conference on the
Foundations of Software Engineering. 637–641.
[10] Tej Chajed, Joseph Tassarotti, Mark Theng, M. Frans Kaashoek, and Nickolai Zeldovich. 2022. Verifying the DaisyNFS
concurrent and crash-safe file system with sequential reasoning. In 16th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design
and Implementation, OSDI 2022, Carlsbad, CA, USA, July 11-13, 2022, Marcos K. Aguilera and Hakim Weatherspoon
(Eds.). USENIX Association, 447–463. https://www.usenix.org/conference/osdi22/presentation/chajed
[11] Projet Coq. 1996. The coq proof assistant-reference manual. INRIA Rocquencourt and ENS Lyon, version 5 (1996), 7–1.
[12] Pascal Cuoq, Florent Kirchner, Nikolai Kosmatov, Virgile Prevosto, Julien Signoles, and Boris Yakobowski. 2012.
Frama-C: A software analysis perspective. In International Conference on Software Engineering and Formal Methods
(SEFM). Springer, 233–247.
[13] Łukasz Czajka and Cezary Kaliszyk. 2018. Hammer for Coq: Automation for dependent type theory. Journal of
automated reasoning 61, 1 (2018), 423–453.
[14] Leonardo De Moura and Nikolaj Bjørner. 2008. Z3: An efficient SMT solver. In International conference on Tools and
Algorithms for the Construction and Analysis of Systems. Springer, 337–340.
[15] Leonardo de Moura and Sebastian Ullrich. 2021. The Lean 4 Theorem Prover and Programming Language. In
Automated Deduction - CADE 28 - 28th International Conference on Automated Deduction, Virtual Event, July 12-15, 2021,
Proceedings (Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 12699), André Platzer and Geoff Sutcliffe (Eds.). Springer, 625–635.
doi:10.1007/978-3-030-79876-5_37
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.


20
H. Tu, H. Zhao, Y. Song, M. Zafar, R. Meng, and A. Roychoudhury
[16] Leonardo Mendonça de Moura and Nikolaj S. Bjørner. 2008. Z3: An Efficient SMT Solver. In Tools and Algorithms
for the Construction and Analysis of Systems, 14th International Conference, TACAS 2008, Held as Part of the Joint
European Conferences on Theory and Practice of Software, ETAPS 2008, Budapest, Hungary, March 29-April 6, 2008.
Proceedings (Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 4963), C. R. Ramakrishnan and Jakob Rehof (Eds.). Springer, 337–340.
doi:10.1007/978-3-540-78800-3_24
[17] Google DeepMind. [n. d.]. AlphaProof. https://deepmind.google/discover/blog/ai-solves-imo-problems-at-silver-
medal-level/
[18] Denis Efremov, Mikhail Mandrykin, and Alexey Khoroshilov. 2018. Deductive verification of unmodified Linux kernel
library functions. In International Symposium on Leveraging Applications of Formal Methods. Springer, 216–234.
[19] Emily First, Yuriy Brun, and Arjun Guha. 2020. TacTok: Semantics-aware proof synthesis. Proceedings of the ACM on
Programming Languages 4, OOPSLA (2020), 1–31.
[20] Pranav Garg, Daniel Neider, P. Madhusudan, and Dan Roth. 2016. Learning invariants using decision trees and
implication counterexamples. In Proceedings of the 43rd Annual ACM SIGPLAN-SIGACT Symposium on Principles of
Programming Languages (St. Petersburg, FL, USA) (POPL ’16). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY,
USA, 499–512. doi:10.1145/2837614.2837664
[21] Yeting Ge and Leonardo De Moura. 2009. Complete instantiation for quantified formulas in satisfiabiliby modulo
theories. In Computer Aided Verification: 21st International Conference, CAV 2009, Grenoble, France, June 26-July 2, 2009.
Proceedings 21. Springer, 306–320.
[22] Hendrik. 2025. Proof tree visualization for Proof General. https://askra.de/software/prooftree/
[23] Robert B. Jones, John W. O’Leary, Carl-Johan H. Seger, Mark D. Aagaard, and Thomas F. Melham. 2001. Practical
Formal Verification in Microprocessor Design. IEEE Des. Test Comput. 18, 4 (2001), 16–25. doi:10.1109/54.936245
[24] Florent Kirchner, Nikolai Kosmatov, Virgile Prevosto, Julien Signoles, and Boris Yakobowski. 2015. Frama-C: A software
analysis perspective. Formal Aspects Comput. 27, 3 (2015), 573–609. doi:10.1007/S00165-014-0326-7
[25] Gerwin Klein, Kevin Elphinstone, Gernot Heiser, June Andronick, David A. Cock, Philip Derrin, Dhammika Elkaduwe,
Kai Engelhardt, Rafal Kolanski, Michael Norrish, Thomas Sewell, Harvey Tuch, and Simon Winwood. 2009. seL4:
formal verification of an OS kernel.. In Proceedings of the 22nd ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles 2009,
SOSP 2009, Big Sky, Montana, USA, October 11-14, 2009, Jeanna Neefe Matthews and Thomas E. Anderson (Eds.). ACM,
207–220. doi:10.1145/1629575.1629596
[26] Guillaume Lample, Timothee Lacroix, Marie-Anne Lachaux, Aurelien Rodriguez, Amaury Hayat, Thibaut Lavril,
Gabriel Ebner, and Xavier Martinet. 2022. Hypertree proof search for neural theorem proving. Advances in neural
information processing systems 35 (2022), 26337–26349.
[27] Andrea Lattuada, Travis Hance, Chanhee Cho, Matthias Brun, Isitha Subasinghe, Yi Zhou, Jon Howell, Bryan Parno,
and Chris Hawblitzel. 2023. Verus: Verifying Rust Programs using Linear Ghost Types (extended version). CoRR
abs/2303.05491 (2023). arXiv:2303.05491 doi:10.48550/ARXIV.2303.05491
[28] K. Rustan M. Leino. 2010. Dafny: An Automatic Program Verifier for Functional Correctness. In Logic for Programming,
Artificial Intelligence, and Reasoning - 16th International Conference, LPAR-16, Dakar, Senegal, April 25-May 1, 2010,
Revised Selected Papers (Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 6355), Edmund M. Clarke and Andrei Voronkov (Eds.).
Springer, 348–370. doi:10.1007/978-3-642-17511-4_20
[29] Xavier Leroy, Sandrine Blazy, Daniel Kästner, Bernhard Schommer, Markus Pister, and Christian Ferdinand. 2016.
CompCert-a formally verified optimizing compiler. In ERTS 2016: Embedded Real Time Software and Systems, 8th
European Congress.
[30] Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Heinrich Küttler,
Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rocktäschel, et al. 2020. Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive nlp
tasks. Advances in neural information processing systems 33 (2020), 9459–9474.
[31] Zhaoyu Li, Jialiang Sun, Logan Murphy, Qidong Su, Zenan Li, Xian Zhang, Kaiyu Yang, and Xujie Si. [n. d.]. A Survey
on Deep Learning for Theorem Proving. In First Conference on Language Modeling.
[32] Chloe Loughridge, Qinyi Sun, Seth Ahrenbach, Federico Cassano, Chuyue Sun, Ying Sheng, Anish Mudide,
Md Rakib Hossain Misu, Nada Amin, and Max Tegmark. 2025. DafnyBench: A Benchmark for Formal Software
Verification. Trans. Mach. Learn. Res. 2025 (2025). https://openreview.net/forum?id=yBgTVWccIx
[33] Minghai Lu, Benjamin Delaware, and Tianyi Zhang. 2024. Proof automation with large language models. In Proceedings
of the 39th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering. 1509–1520.
[34] Minghai Lu, Benjamin Delaware, and Tianyi Zhang. 2024. Proof automation with large language models. In Proceedings
of the 39th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering. 1509–1520.
[35] Lezhi Ma, Shangqing Liu, Yi Li, Xiaofei Xie, and Lei Bu. 2025. SpecGen: Automated Generation of Formal Program
Specifications via Large Language Models . In 2025 IEEE/ACM 47th International Conference on Software Engineering
(ICSE). IEEE Computer Society, Los Alamitos, CA, USA, 16–28. doi:10.1109/ICSE55347.2025.00129
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.


Agentic Program Verification
21
[36] Gregory Malecha, Greg Morrisett, Avraham Shinnar, and Ryan Wisnesky. 2010. Toward a verified relational database
management system. In Proceedings of the 37th Annual ACM SIGPLAN-SIGACT Symposium on Principles of Programming
Languages (Madrid, Spain) (POPL ’10). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 237–248. doi:10.
1145/1706299.1706329
[37] Md Rakib Hossain Misu, Cristina V. Lopes, Iris Ma, and James Noble. 2024. Towards AI-Assisted Synthesis of Verified
Dafny Methods. Proc. ACM Softw. Eng. 1, FSE (2024), 812–835. doi:10.1145/3643763
[38] Peter Müller, Malte Schwerhoff, and Alexander J. Summers. 2016. Viper: A Verification Infrastructure for Permission-
Based Reasoning. In Verification, Model Checking, and Abstract Interpretation - 17th International Conference, VMCAI
2016, St. Petersburg, FL, USA, January 17-19, 2016. Proceedings (Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 9583), Barbara
Jobstmann and K. Rustan M. Leino (Eds.). Springer, 41–62. doi:10.1007/978-3-662-49122-5_2
[39] Lawrence C Paulson. 1994. Isabelle: A generic theorem prover. Springer.
[40] Hammond Pearce, Baleegh Ahmad, Benjamin Tan, Brendan Dolan-Gavitt, and Ramesh Karri. 2025. Asleep at the
keyboard? assessing the security of github copilot’s code contributions. Commun. ACM 68, 2 (2025), 96–105.
[41] Alex Sanchez-Stern, Yousef Alhessi, Lawrence Saul, and Sorin Lerner. 2020. Generating correctness proofs with neural
networks. In Proceedings of the 4th ACM SIGPLAN International Workshop on Machine Learning and Programming
Languages. 1–10.
[42] Alex Sanchez-Stern, Emily First, Timothy Zhou, Zhanna Kaufman, Yuriy Brun, and Talia Ringer. 2023. Passport:
Improving automated formal verification using identifiers. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems
45, 2 (2023), 1–30.
[43] Alex Sanchez-Stern, Abhishek Varghese, Zhanna Kaufman, Dylan Zhang, Talia Ringer, and Yuriy Brun. 2024. QED-
Cartographer: Automating formal verification using reward-free reinforcement learning. In 2025 IEEE/ACM 47th
International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE). IEEE Computer Society, 405–418.
[44] Xujie Si, Hanjun Dai, Mukund Raghothaman, Mayur Naik, and Le Song. 2018. Learning loop invariants for program
verification. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 31 (2018).
[45] Xujie Si, Aaditya Naik, Hanjun Dai, Mayur Naik, and Le Song. 2020. Code2Inv: A Deep Learning Framework for
Program Verification. In Computer Aided Verification - 32nd International Conference, CAV 2020, Los Angeles, CA, USA,
July 21-24, 2020, Proceedings, Part II (Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 12225), Shuvendu K. Lahiri and Chao Wang
(Eds.). Springer, 151–164. doi:10.1007/978-3-030-53291-8_9
[46] Matthieu Sozeau, Yannick Forster, Meven Lennon-Bertrand, Jakob Nielsen, Nicolas Tabareau, and Théo Winterhalter.
2025. Correct and Complete Type Checking and Certified Erasure for Coq, in Coq. J. ACM 72, 1, Article 8 (Jan. 2025),
74 pages. doi:10.1145/3706056
[47] Rocq Development Team. 2025. Search Comand in Rocq Documentation. https://rocq-prover.org/doc/V9.0.0/refman/
proof-engine/vernacular-commands.html#coq:cmd.Search
[48] Kyle Thompson, Nuno Saavedra, Pedro Carrott, Kevin Fisher, Alex Sanchez-Stern, Yuriy Brun, Joao F. Ferreira, Sorin
Lerner, and Emily First. 2025. Rango: Adaptive Retrieval-Augmented Proving for Automated Software Verification . In
2025 IEEE/ACM 47th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE). IEEE Computer Society, Los Alamitos,
CA, USA, 347–359. doi:10.1109/ICSE55347.2025.00161
[49] Grigoriy Volkov, Mikhail Mandrykin, and Denis Efremov. 2018. Lemma functions for Frama-C: C programs as proofs.
In 2018 Ivannikov Ispras Open Conference (ISPRAS). IEEE, 31–38.
[50] Minchao Wu, Michael Norrish, Christian Walder, and Amir Dezfouli. 2021. TacticZero: Learning to Prove Theorems
from Scratch with Deep Reinforcement Learning. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 34: Annual
Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems 2021, NeurIPS 2021, December 6-14, 2021, virtual, Marc’Aurelio
Ranzato, Alina Beygelzimer, Yann N. Dauphin, Percy Liang, and Jennifer Wortman Vaughan (Eds.). 9330–9342. https:
//proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2021/hash/4dea382d82666332fb564f2e711cbc71-Abstract.html
[51] Kaiyu Yang and Jia Deng. 2019. Learning to prove theorems via interacting with proof assistants. In International
Conference on Machine Learning. PMLR, 6984–6994.
[52] Yuntong Zhang, Haifeng Ruan, Zhiyu Fan, and Abhik Roychoudhury. 2024. Autocoderover: Autonomous program
improvement. In Proceedings of the 33rd ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis.
1592–1604.
[53] Naiqian Zheng, Mengqi Liu, Yuxing Xiang, Linjian Song, Dong Li, Feng Han, Nan Wang, Yong Ma, Zhuo Liang, Dennis
Cai, Ennan Zhai, Xuanzhe Liu, and Xin Jin. 2023. Automated Verification of an In-Production DNS Authoritative
Engine. In Proceedings of the 29th Symposium on Operating Systems Principles, SOSP 2023, Koblenz, Germany, October
23-26, 2023, Jason Flinn, Margo I. Seltzer, Peter Druschel, Antoine Kaufmann, and Jonathan Mace (Eds.). ACM, 80–95.
doi:10.1145/3600006.3613153
, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: November 2018.
